All right, guys.
So in this section, we're going to start to look at, I guess, more advanced parts of CSIS or things
that you're not going to use as much.
They're not as common, but you should still know.
And in this video, we're going to look at targeted selectors or just different ways of selecting elements
than we've already learned.
So I'm going to create a new file.
And what I've done is I've created a folder called CSS Sandbox to just because the CSIS sandbox that
we've we've been working with is really filling up.
So I just figured I'd start a new one for this section.
So let's create a file called one underscore and we'll call this targeted, let's say targeted underscore
selectors dot HTML.
And we're going to just put in our boilerplate here and let's change the title targeted
selectors and we'll go ahead and put our style tags in.
Now the HTML for this is going to be really weird, but I'm doing it for a reason because I want to
show you how to select certain parts of it.
So we're going to create a div and in this div we'll have a paragraph with we'll just do lorem something
really short, just form five and then under that I'm going to put a UL and let's do a list item for
the content.
We'll say item and an increment in number.
So dollar sign and let's do three.
So we'll do times three and enter.
All right.
And then under the UL, we're going to put another paragraph with alarm five.
I also want to make this item two.
I want to wrap that in a paragraph tag as well, and you'll see why I'm doing this in a few minutes.
So we're going to do that and then we're going to put one more paragraph under the div.
So outside of the div, so up in the style here, if we do div p like this, you guys, you know what
this is going to do?
It's going to look for any paragraph that's inside of a div, right?
So I'm just going to put a background of let's do Gray, let's save it, let's open this up with live
server.
And I'm actually going to just make this a little bigger so you guys can see it better.
So what's going on here is every paragraph within a div is has the gray background.
If we look at the markup here, this paragraph is in the div, this paragraph is in the div, this one
is then the div.
This last one is not.
So that doesn't pertain to this selector.
Now what if we wanted to select a paragraph that was directly in a div it was a direct child of the
div.
So to do that, we just put a comment here.
We'll say direct child to do that.
What we could do is just add a greater than sign an angle bracket here.
And this is this is saying that we only want a paragraph that is a direct child of a div.
So let's save that.
And you can see that the middle one here this disappeared because it no longer pertains to that because
this item or I'm sorry, this paragraph, it's direct parent is a list item.
Oops.
I mean to do that it's a list item even though it is in this div, it's not the direct parent.
The direct parent is a list item, then that parent is the UL and then that parent is the div.
So at the same time we can also select something that is directly after an element.
So something that's on the same level.
So let's say directly after and I'm going to say Div and I'm going to use a plus sign here and then
a P and let's change the background to we'll just do dark whoops, we'll do dark gray and then we'll
do color white.
So let's save that and see what happens.
So the last paragraph is affected by this selector right here.
And the reason for that is we're saying we want a paragraph where the element right before it is a div
OC.
Now you might be saying, what about this one?
There's a div here, this is a child of the div.
So this paragraph is inside the div, which makes it a child.
This one is a sibling of this div.
They're on the same level.
This is not inside of it.
So that's what this pertains to is basically a sibling.
So the next sibling.
All right.
Now, the next thing I want to show you is how we can add attributes as selectors.
So I'm actually going to add some more markup down here under the paragraph.
I'm going to put a couple of links.
So this will just go nowhere.
I'm just going to say page one, we'll just pretend it's a link to another page on the site.
So page two and then let's do another link.
For this one.
Let's have it go to Google and for the text, we'll say Google.
All right.
Now, usually when you have an external link, you're going to have a target attribute and set it to
underscore blank.
And that will take it off the you know, it won't redirect you within the same tab.
It'll open up another tab.
And if we wanted to style this based on it having a target attribute, we could do that.
So let's go up here and let's say buy attribute.
So I could say the I want all the add tags that have an attribute of target.
And then I want to add a background of let's do red and make the color white.
So if I save that, notice that the Google link now has a red background and that's because it has a
target on it.
Now, if I were to add a target to this one here, let's say target this time, let's set it to underscore
self.
We'll save and it gets a red background because it does have the target.
Now, in addition to this, you can also you can reference the actual value.
So if we want to say where the target is equal to underscore blank and save, you'll see that.
Now, Google is the only one that has the red background because we're saying the target has to be B
blank where this one is actually self.
And I'm going to give you a more practical example of this.
So I'm just going to put that back like that.
And then let's go down here and let's say specific attribute values.
And where I use this the most is with forms so or form inputs, I should say.
So I'm going to just add some line breaks here and let's add a form.
And we're just going to have a couple of inputs.
So let's say input with the type of text and we don't need a name or ID, we'll put a placeholder and
we'll just say name and then I'll copy this down two more times.
This one will be an email.
I'm also going to change the type to email, which is similar to a text field.
This one is actually going to be a submit.
I want this to be a button to submit so it's not going to have a placeholder.
However, it needs a value because that's the text that is displayed.
All right.
So we'll save that and we get this right here.
So let's say I want the name and the email input to go to be 100% width and add a little bit of margin.
So if I were to just do input.
And say with 100% and then say margin bottom will do like, I don't know, five pixels.
And if we were to save that, you'll see that all of these this is going to pertain to all of them because
they're all inputs.
They have different types, but they're all inputs.
So we may want to target certain types.
And in this case I want the name field and the email to have 100%, but not the button itself.
So what I would do, and this is something that I is pretty common for me, is I would say input where
the type equals text.
If I do that only the name extends because it has a type of text.
But then we could put a comma, we could say input where the type where the type equals email and save.
And now both the name and the email are 100%.
And a lot of cases, if it's like a contact form, you'd also do the, you know, the text area as well.
But yeah, so that's how we can target specific values of attributes and it doesn't have to be input
with a type, it can be any attribute at all.
Why did that why did that change?
What did I do wrong here?
Up.
There we go.
All right.
So, I mean, these are just some some other other methods to to target certain things in the DOM to
style.
You're not going to be using these as much, obviously, but you may run into a situation where they
could help you out.
All right.
So in the next video, we're going to talk about a special pseudo selector or pseudo class called Nth
Child.